# DAVe-Deployment

This repository contains the tooling for deploying DAVe application into running Kubernetes cluster.

## Prerequisites

The tooling is written using Ansible. It runs only locally - it doesn't connect to any remote machines. To deploy the application, you need to have following tools installed:
* Ansible 2.2
* Kubectl with proper configuration to connect to running Kubernetes cluster
* boto library which will be used for communication with Amazon AWS APIs
* OpenSSL for generating new SSL keys (only the Let's Encrypt playbook)
* Java (for automatic creation of the keys for signing JSON Web Tokens)

Before installation, the SSL certificated and keys for signing JSON Web Tokens have to be available. You can create them manually or use the prepared playbooks:
* [letsencrypt.yaml](#signed-certificates-with-lets-encrypt)
* [jwtkeystore.yaml](#generating-keys-for-json-web-token-signing)

**Before running the playbook, you have to set the AWS credentials for communication with the AWS services as environment variables.**

## Configuration

The configuration is in `group_vars/all/vars.yaml`. It configures different details of the deployment.

| Variable | Explanation | Example |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `namespace` | Kubernetes namespace where the DAVe application should be deployed | `dave` |
| `database_namespace` | Kubernetes namespace where the database should be deployed | `database` |
| `release` | Which Docker image tag should be used in the deployment | `1.0.0` |
| `dns_zone` | Hosted DNS zone which has to exist in Route53 | `dbg-devops.com` |
| `ui_dns` | Hostname of the UI | `snapshot.dave.dbg-devops.com` |
| `api_dns` | Hostname of the API service | `api.snapshot.dave.dbg-devops.com` |
| `elb_hosted_zone` | The hosted zone in which the aliased ELB load balancers are hosted (should be dependent on the AWS region) | `Z32O12XQLNTSW2` |
| `auth_salt` | Authentication salt used to store passwords | `123456` |
| `jwt_keystore_path` | Java Keystore with keys used to sign JWT tokens | `./jwt.keystore` |
| `jwt_keystore_password` | Password for the keystore above | `123456` |
| `api_key_path` | Path to the API private key | `./api.key` |
| `api_cert_path` | Path to the API public key | `./api.cert` |
| `ui_key_path` | Path to the UI private key | `./ui.key` |
| `ui_cert_path` | Path to the UI public key | `./ui.cert` |
| `database_name` | Name of the MongoDB database the API should be configured to use | `DAVe` |
| `database_hostname` | MongoDB database hostname | `mongo.database` |
| `database_port` | MongoDB database port | `` |

Following configuration is needed only for signing the certificates with Let's Encrypt:

| Variable | Explanation | Example |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `letsencrypt_account_key_path` | Path where the Let's Encrypt account key is / should be created | `./account.key` |
| `acme_directory` | Let's Encrypt ACME directory where we the certificates should be signed (production or staging) | `https://acme-staging.api.letsencrypt.org/directory` |

## Installation

To install the application, run:
```
ansible-playbook install.yaml
```

It will create the Kubernetes resources, Route53 records etc. The definition of the Kubernetes objects is in the templates of different roles. Change the templates if you want to change something. **Before running the installation, check the configuration first.**

## Uninstallation

To uninstall the application, run:
```
ansible-playbook uninstall.yaml
```

It will remove all Kubernetes resources from the cluster as well as the Route53 DNS records. **Before running the uninstallation, check the configuration first.**

## Signed certificates with Let's Encrypt

Playbook `letsencrypt.yaml` can be used to obtain signed keys from Let's Encrypt CA:
```
ansible-playbook letsencrypt.yaml
```

* If the account key is missing, it will generate new account key
* If the UI key is missing, it will generate the UI key with the UI hostname in CN
* It will generate UI CSR
* If the API key is missing, it will generate the API key with the API hostname in CN
* It will generate API CSR
* It will try to get the certificates signed. DNS verification will be used - Route53 will be automatically used to handle it.
* The keys will be signed only if the old keys expire in 10 or less days

*The `acme_directory` variable can be used to define whether the production Let's Encrypt service should be used or the staging service (for testing).*

## Generating keys for JSON Web Token signing

Playbook `jwtkeystore.yaml` can be used to generate the keys needed for signing JSON Web Tokens for in the authentication server:
```
ansible-playbook jwtkeystore.yaml
```

If the keystore from the `jwt_keystore_path` variable doesn't exist, it will be automatically generated by this playbook with the password from `jwt_keystore_password` variable.
